---
title: "Holism: next step in the evolution of structural airworthiness?"
---

Many say we should manage our health 'holistically', that we should always look
after our whole being and not just wait to treat individual diseases. Could
'holism' also be good for structural airworthiness?

In February 2019, as snow blanketed the USA, twenty aeronautical engineers were
meeting (as they do every year) to discuss that very question. I was one. (Yes,
that's me presenting in the photo above.) On our minds was a recent fatal
accident in the USA. Fatigue and corrosion had unexpectedly and dangerously
interacted to break a blade off the propeller of a Lockheed KC-130T Hercules
transport. It set off a chain of events that broke up the whole airframe in
flight. The aircraft crashed in pieces, killing all on board.

For the meeting's leader, Dr Hoeppner, Emeritus Professor at the University of
Utah, it was another tragic reminder of why he first proposed his Holistic
Structural Integrity Process (HOLSIP): to manage structural risks from all
foreseeable hazards, not just those the standards prescribe; to consider how
hazards interact, not just in isolation; to understand the true nature of
materials, not just their engineering ideals; to understand the physics of
structural degradation, not just the test results; and to analyse structure more
like a system, including reliability. Dr Hoeppner is internationally renowned
for his pioneering work on the structural airworthiness of engines as well as
aircraft.

Could HOLSIP be the next step in the evolution of structural airworthiness,
after 'safe life', 'fail-safe' and 'damage tolerance'? The last is still a sound
concept, as Bob Eastin and I told ICAF in 2005 (see our paper, 'Rough Diamond',
on my 'Tech' page), but HOLSIP could improve its application. HOLSIP is like a
Safety Management System (SMS) for structure.

For a more complete description of HOLSIP, see [this page on the HOLSIP
website](http://www.holsip.com/about.htm).

My presentation to this year's Workshop was, 'Holistic Standards for Holistic
Projects, like ERSI'. 'ERSI' is short for 'Engineered Residual Stress
Implementation', a project by which the USAF hopes to safely reap more benefit
from intentional residual stresses such as introduced by 'cold expanding'
fastener holes. An important project deliverable will be new regulatory guidance
for MIL-STD-1530D and JSSG-2006. Dr Michael Gorelik, the US FAA's Chief
Scientific and Technical Adviser for Fatigue and Damage Tolerance, is also
involved for civil aviation.

My presentation is available on my 'Tech' page. Also see my posts on previous
HOLSIP Workshops.

I greatly respect Dr Hoeppner and others pursuing a more holistic approach to
structural integrity, and hope to continue to attend the HOLSIP Workshops in the
USA.
